Greetings to all Buddhist followers and
friends! Welcome to the
Traditional Tet (Lunar New Year) Q&A program.
Today, our companion
in this conversation
is Ms. Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan, head of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
practicing the Six Harmonies. I respectfully greet you, Ms. Yen.
First, allow me to express my
gratitude for dedicating your valuable time
to this conversation today.
Ms. Yen, every time Tet comes around,
we often talk about the
traditional culture of the
Vietnamese people, with its noble and beautiful aspects. Lighting
incense on New Year's Eve is the
first and most sacred act,
representing that. This is also a
concern of a viewer who
sent a question to the program.
I would like to read the question: "
Ms. Yen, I recently got married and my family
wants to light incense outdoors on the 30th of
Tet. I see some people light five sticks, some
seven, some
nine, and some only three.
I don't know how
many sticks to light."  What is the meaning of the number of incense sticks
? I hope you can answer my
question. Thank you. I
respectfully invite you to answer this question.
Dear fellow practitioners and friends, regarding the practice of lighting
incense in the yard, since the
Han family's tradition, we have always lit incense
in the yard on the night of the 30th of
Tet (Lunar New Year's Eve). There's always
a tray of offerings, sticky rice cakes, candies, and a piece of pork sausage. And when lighting
incense, it's always
said to light three,
seven, or nine
incense sticks. It's not said to light only one incense stick, because then it's
said to bring good luck.
And when lighting incense
in the yard, it has the meaning
of lighting nine directions of heaven, the
Buddha's direction, the worldly direction. Therefore,
this is a very noble tradition; at
the beginning of the year, we think of Buddha, and we
only think of Buddha to bless
us with good things. In
reality, Buddha does bless us with good things, but we
don't know the meaning.  So,
how do you get Buddha's blessings? You just
light incense outside the altar,
offering it to Buddha. That intention is also to
bring happiness. In the act of offering
incense, after offering to
Buddha, you stop
thinking about offering to Buddha and start thinking about odd or even numbers.
If you light an even number of incense sticks, it's not good; you
have to light an
odd number of incense sticks to bring good luck. That
is, even though you're offering to Buddha and praying for his blessings,
you think of the incense stick as
something related to your own luck, and you
don't think about the offering itself as an offering to
Buddha anymore. You forget about that.
But only now do I realize
this. Before, I just thought about
needing good luck and praying. I
just did what the elders told me, but
no one can verify the luck
because every household lights
incense like that; nobody ever uses two
incense sticks, right? Nobody
ever lights four incense sticks; they only
light one or two.  It has to be 3, 5, 7, 9, that's
all, or you can light a whole bundle of incense sticks. Nobody
lights two incense sticks, and yet you don't see
anyone getting lucky or happy.
Everyone lights incense the same way, so if
something doesn't
reflect the truth as people say,
we need to reconsider.
For Buddhism, lighting three incense sticks
represents the fragrance of morality,
concentration, and wisdom. Therefore, when holding
three incense sticks, you should light them because
this custom of burning incense is a
long-standing tradition of Buddhism. Buddhism has been
introduced to Vietnam for a very long time,
and it also entered
China and then Vietnam.
The custom of
offering incense and burning paper money also came
from China. That's why
we have this practice.
Previously, the practice of lighting incense
originated from monks, and
monks often said to the Buddha, "The
fragrance of morality, concentration, and wisdom." Moral conduct refers to the
moral virtues of one's mind, while
concentration refers to...  Practicing meditation and cultivating
wisdom is when one's own wisdom
arises. When one practices precepts and
concentration, in Buddhism, it is called the
three unblemished disciplines: Precepts, Concentration, and Wisdom.
This fragrant merit is
offered to the Buddhas. It is called the fragrance of precepts, the fragrance of
concentration, and the fragrance of wisdom. This is
why
people later lit three incense sticks.
Gradually, it became distorted because
superstitious spiritual practices
exploited the desire for happiness and
blessings in the spiritual world, so
people followed along.
But it's not really like that.
When we light incense, instead of
three incense sticks,
we can light as many as we want.
In that prayer, we offer our
sincere devotion, carried
by the fragrant smoke, to the
Buddhas. That's
using the smoke of the incense to convey
our feelings. This fragrance dissolves into
the space, reaching
everywhere and merging with the atmosphere of the
universe.  So, if you bring your heart
to offer to all the Buddhas,
then your merit will be generated. That is,
you sincerely wish to offer to all the Buddhas in the ten
directions, and today you only have
the fragrance from this incense stick. So,
I offer it to all the Buddhas in the ten directions.
This is called vowing to send your sincere devotion, your heartfelt devotion, to let the
incense dissolve into the Dharma
realm and offer it to the Buddhas. The vow is to send your sincere
devotion with the clouds, the
fragrance wafting throughout the ten directions, offering it
to the Buddhas—that's what it means.
So, we
must understand the true meaning of lighting incense—that's the true
meaning. It's not about
lighting odd numbers, or saying that the positive is
lucky and the negative is unlucky. If
there were only positive and no negative, it would also be unlucky. If
our food is all positive and nothing is negative, we wo
n't be healthy. That's why people
say that yin and yang must be balanced. If we
talk about food, we can talk about climate too.
For example, if the weather is too calm,
it's too positive, and if it's too calm, it's also unlucky.  Is it true that death is inevitable? If
it rains too much, it becomes negative, and that can lead to
death. Therefore, the weather must be harmonious, with sunshine and rain. It's not about using the concept of yin and yang based on the number of incense sticks to determine whether you will have divine protection or not, or whether you will be rich or lucky. That depends on
your heart's desire for happiness, but
relying on incorrect beliefs
won't bring happiness.
So, if you
don't have a Buddhist altar in your home, you
should set up one. You can even place it
in the main Buddhist altar. It does
n't necessarily have to be in the
yard. But if you still want to have it
in the yard, you can
light incense there,
and you can light as many incense sticks as you like. Just
recite, "I
send my sincere devotion with the clouds of
incense, spreading throughout the ten directions, offering it to all the
Buddhas."
This confirms that it's
not the number of incense sticks that brings
happiness, but whether your heart truly respects the Buddha.
By lighting incense on the night of the
30th, we will generate merit.
Just the act of lighting incense on the
30th night, and when we do it,
we pray to Buddha for his protection, for our
connection with
Buddha, for our ability to study Buddhist teachings, and for our understanding of
karma. This allows us to sow good
seeds, and for Buddha's blessings to guide our family to always
do good deeds and
reap good rewards. Therefore,
lighting incense and praying
like this prevents
superstition and creates
auspicious connections, bringing
our children closer to good people, and allowing
us to connect with kind-
hearted people who help us in our endeavors. This
is because we show reverence to
Buddha, offer our devotion to the Buddhas,
and hope for what
karma is doing. That is, by
hoping for and doing
this, our wishes will
come true. Because we are all
governed by karma; no one can
escape the cycle of karma. Therefore,
understanding and recognizing karma is crucial.  If
we practice according to the law of
cause and effect, we will be happy.
But if we seek happiness
but sow seeds that
produce suffering,
we will never be happy.
That's why wisdom is
n't about living foolishly or
dying foolishly; both are bad. Knowing is what
's good. That means we must
understand cause and effect so we can practice it. That's what's good. If
we master the cause, we
will master the effect. That's what's good. So, for
the offering on the 30th night,
we should use the incense sticks we have in our hearts. As for the incense sticks we secretly
burn, any number is fine.
The only
thing is, when you light the incense,
you should use three sticks so your eyes can see the
balance. That's what we're used to, so
we should use three sticks, or one stick. If
you use two sticks,
your eyes aren't used to it, but two
sticks are fine, four sticks are also fine.
Don't mix things up,
okay? For example...  Isn't it
better for two people to do good deeds? It's
better for two people in our family to speak kind words to each other than for one, right?
So
we shouldn't put superstition into everything; each thing is
different, and each situation has its own
way of dealing with cause and effect. Therefore,
we will get what we
hope for. Yes,
thank you, teacher, for
answering and
guiding me on this matter. Through your
sharing, I understand
that the number of incense sticks doesn't determine whether
good fortune comes to us
during the Lunar New Year; it is
our inner sincerity that
determines
our own karma. Is that correct? I
hope that with
Ms. Pham Thi Yen's answer, you will have
more sound decisions
and a peaceful and happy new year
with your family and loved ones. Goodbye
and see you again in the next
program.
[music]